Redmond, WA, 98053
+1-425-866-5162
Email: himnishkapoor@outlook.com
Himnish Kapoor
US citizen:Eligible to work anywhere in the country
LinkedIn
Education
GEORGIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY Atlanta, Georgia
Degree: Master of Science in Analytics Aug 2022 – July-2024
Track: Computational Data Analytics
Birla Institute of Technology & Science, Pilani Hyderabad, Telangana
4 Year B.E (Hons.) Computer Science Aug 2018 - May 2022
–
Skills
Programming Languages: R, C++, Java, Python, C, HTML, XML, CSS, JavaScript
Framework: Spark, Hadoop, TensorFlow, Keras, NumPy, Scipy, PuLP, Apache, Flink,Flask
Databases: MySQL
Analytical Techniques: Machine Learning, Data clustering, Regression, Simulation, Time series analysis,
Longitudinal analysis
Software and Technologies: Android Studios, Git, Simio, Arena
Experience
Wipro Limited October 2024 -Present
Microsoft StarLab- Network Software Engineer
- Working on the design and development centralized PDU power-utilization monitoring platform by
implementing SNMP-based telemetry collection and time-series data ingestion to enable reliable monitoring, and
reducing MTTR.
- Implemented Network configuration for routing and switching infrastructure, implementing IP schemes,
VLAN segmentation, and gateway configurations to maintain high availability and enable reliable network
connectivity.
- Accelerated resolution of connectivity and access issues by diagnosing Layer 2/3 issues, validating VLANs, IP
reachability, gateways, and interface health.
- Conducted end-to-end SSH connectivity troubleshooting across management and routing paths to restore secure
access.
Ecohome.one Software Engineering Intern November 2025 - Present
- Enhanced an AI-powered chatbot application by implementing improved intent handling, structured product
data extraction, and dynamic navigation logic, increasing response accuracy and usability.
- Built an incremental AI-based price and carbon estimation scheduler that processes only stale inventory items,
cutting query time by about 50x and reducing processing volume by about 90% versus full-inventory batch updates.
- Built a production-ready smart recommendation system that generated personalized suggestions across 6
recommendation types, backed by multi-dimensional scoring and user priority inference and scaled it with
MongoDB indexes,across inventories,shopping lists,interactions and telemetry plus a data migration for community
sharing readiness.
- Implemented prompt versioning and modular chatbot workflows, enabling safer iteration, feature
expansion, and long-term maintainability.
- Designed and implemented a location-aware price estimation feature by integrating real-time currency
exchange APIs and localization logic to deliver accurate, region-specific cost estimates, ensuring consistent
pricing and improved user trust across geographies.
- Used Git-based workflows and collaborated with product managers and senior developers to translate
business requirements into production-ready application features.
Redmond, WA, 98053
+1-425-866-5162
Email: himnishkapoor@outlook.com
Volvo India Grp Pvt Ltd Data Science Intern June 2021 - December,2021
- Completed a corporate research internship at the AI-ML COE team at Volvo India Grp Pvt Ltd,
Bangalore
Semantic Search Engine
• Developed a semantic search engine to streamline internal vehicle-parts ordering using NLP-
based ranking techniques.
• Implemented BM25 (RankBM25) and fine-tuned BERT-based models, achieving over 90%
relevance accuracy.
• Analyzed large text datasets and evaluated model performance using structured validation
methods.
Volvo Vision System
• Contributed to an AI application that integrated Azure services, working on frontend and backend
components.
• Designed the application interacting with Azure Blob, Queue, and Table Storage via SDKs.
Additional projects-
– Trained a YOLO model for face recognition and developed a custom human detection model using
TensorFlow libraries and the COCO dataset.
– Optimized model performance by adjusting hyperparameters and fine-tuning the dataset for
improved accuracy.
Shepherd Center-Rehabilitation center Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta
– Analyzed variables and performed individual hypothesis testing to identify links between variables and
the occurrence of pressure ulcers in patients. Developed a model to determine the most significant
variables impacting pressure ulcers using regression models and neural networks achieving 80 percent
accuracy
– Prepared and manipulated data for machine learning algorithms to determine feature importance and
significant variables.
– Conducted exploratory data analysis (EDA) to visualize variable distributions, including patient
age, type and severity of spinal cord injuries, and follow-up frequency
Redmond, WA, 98053
+1-425-866-5162
Email: himnishkapoor@outlook.com
Redmond, WA, 98053
+1-425-866-5162
Email: himnishkapoor@outlook.com