Seattle Premier League Rules:
1) 30 over games, limit of 6 overs per bowler. Venues are North Robinswood, McCollum Park, Monroe Marshall Field and Kent. Games start at 1030 am except Apr 18 and 19 games at robinswood where the first game starts at 8am and the second game starts at 130pm. 
2) Total 10 teams. All teams are guaranteed 9 league matches after which top 4 teams make playoffs. Teams will have max 5 home games and can not play more than 5 games at a single ground. 
3) Top 2 in standings have two chances to make the final (like IPL). There will be qualifier 1, eliminator, qualifier 2 and final as playoff games. Qualifier 1, Eliminator and Qualifier 2 will be on Apr 25 and 26. In case of playoffs washed out, higher seed will advance. Final on May 2. 
4) Neutral main umpire has been arranged and will be paid by organizing team. No need to pay umpire after the game. Leg umpire will be batting side.  
5) 7 overs initial power play after which 5 fielders are allowed outside the circle. 1 bouncer per over allowed.
6) white uniforms, pink balls. We will be using 2 pink balls per innings which will be alternated each over. For example, overs 1,3,5,7,9,11 etc will be bowled with one ball while overs 2,4,6,8,10 etc will be bowled by the other. As this is a new concept please keep reminding umpires and keep track.  
7) captains can mutually shorten game on the day if they believe heavy rain is expected later and let umpire know. 
8) If a game gets washed out and we can get a rain credit from the city, the affected teams have the option to replay their game in April (when days are longer) during an 8am slot where they will play a t20. The second game that day will start at 12pm.   
9) Sports gloves (not wicket-keeper gloves) can be used while fielding due to cold in all league games. However, no gloves allowed in playoffs. 
10) 12 players per side. 11 bat, 11 field. 
11) Player must have played 2 league games to be eligible for playoffs.
12) 2 points for a win. 1 for abandoned. 0 for loss. Tied games will use super over to decide winner. If teams are tied on points, net run rate determines higher ranked team
13) match balls to be provided by organizers. 18 balls per team (2 to be used each game).
14) Players not added to team roster and playing on different name will result in that team forfeiting the game so please ensure you have everyone in your cricclubs by the Friday before each game or reach out to me if there are issues with adding names. Please correctly input fields, wicket keeper catches as there will be prizes at the end of the tournament. If there is a scorecard error please contact organizer for correction. 
15) Players can only play for 1 team. No transferring to other teams mid tournament (same goes for youth). No professional players allowed. A professional player is defined as someone who has played domestic cricket or in franchise t20 leagues (IPL, PSL, CPL, BPL, Major League etc). Teams found playing an ineligible player will forfeit the game.  
16) Captain to ensure players are treating umpire respectfully. Disrespecting umpires or fighting with opponent team can result in points deduction. 
17) 30 minute of rain stoppages allowed after which 1 over to be cut from game for every 4 minutes of delay
18) Duckworth Lewis Stern (DLS) in cricclubs to be used for shortened games. Minimum 15 overs per side needed for a result. 
19) Each team is supposed to take care of their own lunch/beverages
20) First team listed on criccblus is home team and is responsible for field set up (cones, wickets, scoreboard) and pickup.
21) 7 players are required at time off toss otherwise team concedes toss (15 mins before play)
22) Schedule of play: Each innings should be completed in 2 hours 10 minutes (130 minutes). 20 minutes innings break in between. Games should finish in 5 hours.
23) All other ICC rules will be followed.